abstract content

## Introduction
Test
## CAR-T History

Features of CARs that improved over autologus cell therapy
1. MHC-unrestricted
2. Don't have to resect tumors to harvest T-cells
3. Known antigens
4. Avoids the difficulties (sort of) of ex-vivo expansion of TILs
5. Risk of anergy or cell death in the infused product
6. Tumors are able to escape TCR therapy by downregulating HLA or modifying their processing of antigen.
7. TCR activity would be limited to either HLA class I epitopes (CD8+ CTLs) or HLA class II (CD4+). To get both activity, would need multiple genes
8. Limited to peptide antigens, can't get at carbohydrate or glycolipid antigens (or least only rarely)
9. Difficult to find CTL epitopes that are active -- "widely presented TAAs are predominantly produced by endogenous processing of intracellular self-proteins." Thymic presentation of these TAAs results in T-cell repertoire that is devoid of high-avidity TAA-specific CTLs, due to self-tolerance" [@pubmed:11577350]

### 

- 1986: First transfer of a specific TCR to a lymphocyte (in a mouse)[@pubmed:2421164]
- 1999: First transfer of a specific TCR into lymphocytes to target a human tumor antigen, MART-1 (melanoma)[@pubmed:10384155]. They were clones from an HLA-A2+ patient-derived T-cell clone.
- 1999: First use of first-generation CAR-T in lymphocytes from humans[@pubmed:10933046]. scFv-based zeta-chain fusion receptor termed Pz-1 that is specific for prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA)
- 2001: First identification of in vivo activity of a TCR-transduced T cell. Target was influenza nucleoprotein (NP) peptide. The mice were injected with EL4 thymoma tumor cells that express NP, and efficacy and homing of the transduced T-cells was identified. There was complete tumor eradication.
-
- By 2003, a review listed 23 different tumor antigens that have been targeted by genetically modified T cells. Of tehse, some were

## CAR-T Biology






## Challenges in solid tumor

#### Trafficking

#### Tumor microenvironment

#### Target selection

- The most prevalent cancer-specific mutations are not presented on common HLA alleles. This may in part be due to early immune-based negative selective pressure that allows only those driver alterations that are not immunogenic to be presented [@pubmed:32256484]. For instance, an attempt to find neo-antigens that bind to known driver mutations yieled a frequency of < 3% for any given HLA type[@pubmed:28231819].
- HLA alleles are highly polymorphic -- across the 3 HLA Class I alleles (A, B, C) there are over 13,000 alleles [@pubmed:24894089].
- Note that CD19, which is the most targeted and first approved target, is widely expressed on all B-cells. The toxicity is predicatable: B-cell aplasia, which can be tolerated with IVIG etc.
- The target should be stable, and this become more difficult with more unstable genomes that can escape by losing expression of the target. For instace, the most common escape for CD19-directed thearpy is trunacting mutations and copy-number changes leading to LOH[@pubmed:30275569]. Notably though, these mutations were largely truncating, not completly deleting. "This is because CD19 is necessaary for function of the BCR complex, which is necessary for B cell differentiation and survival". Genes that are easily changed through epigenetic means, as opposed to having to have mutations or copy-loss, are more prone to be escaped[@pubmed:31221182].
- 

## Therapeutic strategies

#### Expanding targets

###### PC CAR-T

###### CARs with two targets
- Combined expression of CD-19 and CD-123 targeting CARs against B-cell leukemia was effective in a mouse model at preventing a CD19- relapse (~400 citations)[@pubmed:27571406].
- Dual targeting This was also employed in a phase 1 targeting R/R B-ALL / LBCL, this stime using a CD19-22.BB.z-CAR consiting of a single molecule with two scFvs engineered in a loop[@pubmed:34312556].
- Dual targeting ***

#### Modifying the TME
- ARMORED CARS

#### Different effector cells
- NK therapy 


## Production

#### Leukophoresis and enrichment
#### Transfection
- Retroviral vectors are commonly used, but others systems include adenoviral and non-viral systems
#### Allogeneic CAR-T


## Current efforts by tumor

## Practical management

#### Toxicity
- (Distinguish between on- and off-target)

## Future directions and conclusion



